[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: We've been using just
part of the jQuery library so far.
Like I said, the jQuery library is huge,
and the DOM manipulation part of it,
while it is the most prevalent and
the most well used part of it, we will
be talking about another part which is
called Ajax here in just one second, but
we have some other questions to address.
>> Speaker 2: The first one is,
why would you use jQuery to add and
remove styling classes,
versus changing CSS directly?
>> Brian Holt: That's a great question,
and the answer comes in
the form of it's reusable.
So, if you're just changing CSS in the
JavaScript, it's kind of an anti-pattern
and when I say anti-pattern it
means it's just not a good idea.
Because if I put it into a CSS class and
then add and remove a class,
I can now use that everywhere
on my website, right?
For example, if I have an error
class that jQuery adds and removes,
what happens if I load a page
with an error class, right?
Then I kind of have bifurcated my efforts
here, that I have to maintain both
the jQuery CSS and this other class
that mean essentially the same thing.
Whereas, if I just add or remove classes,
it's all available always to be
used across their entire website.
Laziness, that's my key
answer right there.
>> Speaker 2: And then the next
question was, does the hidden
element still take up space
then.
>> Brian Holt: So
we saw this yesterday
when we talked about CSS.
The answer is no to that question.
When you set display to be none it
essentially takes the entire element out
of the document flow so it essentially
has no bearing on the DOM itself.
Good question, though.
>> Speaker 3: Well, it's still there,
right, cuz you could just switch
that to not be hidden, and
it would appear.
>> Brian Holt: Exactly.
>> Speaker 3: Essentially go re-download
that piece, so it's still there.
>> Brian Holt: It is still there, correct,
definitely.
You just have to say display block or
display inline or
whatever it's supposed to be and
it would show back up.
Or in this particular case
you would just say show.
Yeah, it's still there.
It's just not making any manifestation
of itself, cool.
>> Speaker 4: Question,
did I miss explanation
of the DOM in detail,
kind of what happens with jQuery
pulling stuff out of the DOM,
did you explain that?
>> Brian Holt: Not a whole lot,
the DOM is a complicated beast,
and as supposed to diving in and
getting really confusing about it.
I think it's better to just
kind of take a surface,
kind of take it as a black box right now
and say, this is very complicated but
here's a couple buttons I know if I can
press and it will do certain things for
me, but-
>> Speaker 3: There's an article on
CSS Trader called What is the DOM?
And it kinda explains
it very laymen's terms.
It's basically a tree-like structure, and
there's these elements.
>> Brian Holt: But when jQuery pulls
something out of it, does it insert
something back into that DOM
that's kind of a new HTML format or file?
>> Speaker 3: Well, when you use
the jQuery object you're just wrapping
the element in the jQuery object so
it's not taking it out of
the DOM in order to modify it.
It's just doing it jQuery's way, right.
It's not really like taking it out.
If you say .remove that will
take it out of the DOM but-
>> Brian Holt: So the simple answer to,
I think what you're
confusing here is that,
when I say get the user input, right.
It's not actually yanking it out of the
DOM, it's actually just pointing at it.
It's pointing at it where it is right now.
So it's just referencing
what's already there.
It's not pulling it out,
messing with it and putting it back.
It's just changing it in its place.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 4: Okay,
yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.